Hi.
Excited to be here today to
talk to you about iTunes U.
This is a new service from Apple that we
just began making available this summer.
So I've divided this
session into three parts.
First, I'm going to talk about
an overview of iTunes U,
give you a sense of what it is,
what it can do,
and how and why you might want to use it.
And then we'll move on and talk about
integrating your authentication,
authorization, and your online learning
environment into iTunes U,
what steps are required on
your part as an institution.
And then last, we'll talk about content.
So just curious,
how many people here are already
a part of iTunes U and are
working on their implementation?
Great.
That's great.
Thanks.
So let's get into talking about
exactly what is iTunes U for those of
you who are here to learn about it.
iTunes U really got its start
from the iTunes Music Store.
This graphic I put up here
is just to display the fact
that the iTunes Music Store,
iPod, and iTunes were really designed
to work together as a unit.
One without the other doesn't make
the entire system as complete.
The iPod, a great device for portability.
The iTunes, the great desktop software.
And the iTunes Music Store is the
place to get content was the goal.
And as we started hearing back
from the education community
about what was needed,
we realized we needed a way
to get content into iPod and
iTunes in higher education.
So we created iTunes U.
Now iTunes U, as I said,
we just made available this summer.
has been in development
for a little over a year,
and we've been piloting this
with some institutions that had a
great interest in iPod and iTunes.
So we feel today what we have to offer
is the best way to distribute content
for iPod and iTunes in Higher Education.
I mentioned this is a
service that we're hosting.
We're making it available to
Higher Education institutions in the U.S.
and Canada, not for profit at this time.
It provides a really simple and
powerful way to manage content and it's
not just simply about distribution,
it does a lot of collaboration as well.
So if you're thinking about podcasts
and already doing podcasting,
you can use iTunes U not only to
distribute content but allow your
students and instructors to collaborate,
to share the content
that they're authoring.
We'll talk about how to control
access to iTunes U because iTunes U is
also about allowing you to control
who's authorized to use different
sections of your site and really be
able to put very fine-grained or broad
control on what type of content you
want it to deliver to your audience.
I mentioned it's a service.
We're making this a service right now.
We feel comfortable in doing this
because we really want to be able to
deliver features to you quickly and
turn those around and give you new
features as fast as we can deliver them.
We have over 2.9 million songs
in the iTunes Music Store.
We're delivering a million videos
per week and 3 million songs per day.
And we have the infrastructure to
do this and we feel very confident
in delivering that to you.
This is an example of an iTunes U site.
We'll get into a demo shortly.
I just want to show
you a few screenshots.
Duke University was one of
the first to use iTunes U.
I'm showing this page to also show
you that you can protect access
to content or make content public.
Duke University has chosen to
make some of the content they're
distributing open for free access.
So the content on this site and
all the sites within iTunes U,
there's no DRM on it.
Anybody can access and
download these files,
and they play back on an iPod and iTunes.
They also play back on other players.
So with this site,
Duke University has chosen to put up
content that they feel is not just
accessible to their students and faculty,
but to the entire community and is
important for them to be able to access.
So you can get to this site
through their web browser.
UC Berkeley is doing the same thing.
This is their welcome page and
they have content up here in
several different categories.
They have computer science content,
biological sciences, engineering.
As you click on individual
icons on this page,
you drill down into other levels
where you'll see course pages.
Here's Stanford's welcome page.
They're also distributing content.
To the public,
all three of these cases are.
And as we get down onto
an individual page,
you see this is what
we call a course page,
which should look familiar if
you've used the iTunes Music Store.
This is very similar to an album
page within the Music Store.
And we took a few other concepts
from the Music Store that I want
to point out to make what we call
a course page within iTunes U.
We've taken tabs,
which are an element that iTunes
Music Store uses for essentials to
organize content into different areas.
So you don't leave the page,
but organize content
into different sections.
So they have this faculty lectures
section that's been broken down
into several different categories.
Audio, best of philosophy talk,
and titled opinions, video,
micro documentaries,
and travel and study.
They have a links box that
they control the content of.
They can link to other content that's
related to this audio/video material
that's on their website or on other
websites that they want to point you to.
And then there's a way to download
all the tracks in each tab or
subscribe to the content in this
tab as a podcast so that you can be,
as a user, updated with all the latest
content when they choose to add
content to these categories,
these tabs.
So those are a few areas
I want to point out.
We're going to do a demo,
and I'm going to ask Jason Ediger,
who's the product manager for iTunes U,
to come up here and help me with that.
And we'll take you through more of
a real example that we've created
called the Apple Digital Campus.
Great.
Thank you, Eric.
So Eric showed you some of the
screenshots of some of the iTunes
U sites that are out there,
primarily some public sites.
And what I want to do is kind
of show you the infrastructure,
how they built out those sites,
and how they were able to
manage some of the courses.
So we're going to log in
from a web-based environment.
And I'm going to log in actually as a
person with two different credentials,
one for a site administrator,
as well as somebody who has course
management roles or an instructor role.
So when we go in and
we're on the front page,
you'll notice that this front page
looks different than UC Berkeley.
It looks different than Stanford.
This front page is yours
that you can customize.
You'll notice that you have edit page,
edit appearance tools here
on the right-hand side.
You can put your top-level graphic,
your messaging, your background colors,
your links.
So that way you can match the
look and feel of your university.
So as you pass a user into iTunes U,
it very much feels as if you're providing
a service that's part of your university.
You can link out to things
outside of iTunes U.
So if you want to link back
to your web-based services,
online resources,
course management systems,
you can link back to the
web using link boxes.
In this case, our service.
So if you want to link back
to your school calendar,
it's the Apple Store schedule
at the Palo Alto store.
And you're able to link over into the
music store if you wanted to do that,
or anywhere else that is URL addressable.
Jumping down into a course,
this is set up as English 350.
Going down inside of that,
you're seeing that we're able to
divide a course into sections.
This is love and despair and poetry.
So there's love, there's despair.
If you heard my joke,
there's more despair than love.
And so you're able to go in and
actually manage this content.
You're able to get individual songs.
You're able to get tracks.
And one of the nice things
that we've been able to do is,
be able to do collaboration.
And so you notice there's a
Dropbox tab in here as well.
So I, as a course manager,
have an edit tool up
here to edit the page.
And you'll notice that the
UI changes just very slightly.
So when I click edit page,
I get these editing tools
in line inside of the page.
So for Dropbox,
I'm able to go in and say that the
student access for this tab is a Dropbox.
As students create audio and
video content for this course,
they can drop it back into that tab
and hand it back to a professor.
You can also set it for
it to be a shared tab.
It can be a no access tab or a way
of just having straight download.
So I, as a course manager,
might have a no access tab so
I can build out content inside
of the environment before I make
it available to the students.
I can also manage content to
upload it into this environment.
So if I click on upload files,
I'll get a tabbed environment inside
of a web browser that allows me
to go to the tab that I'm going to
associate content with and then add
the track in line and then I'll upload
it and refresh it inside of iTunes.
Thank you.
I can also edit the links box.
Hang on,
it would help if I saved my changes.
Let's edit the page again.
I can add a links box up here.
So if I wanted to add a link or a URL,
again,
out to those other web-based resources,
you can do that.
It's also important to note
that everything inside of
iTunes U has its own unique URL.
So if I wanted students to
come and grab the Raven,
I can grab that URL,
paste it inside of my
course management system,
and then a student can click on it,
link into iTunes,
and with a single click,
sync it to their iPod so
they can listen to it.
It's important to note that iTunes
U is not a course management system.
This is a content distribution system.
We look at it being a complementary
service to a service like Blackboard
or WebCT or Sakai or Moodle,
where this course management or
the learning management system
provides the context for the
content or where the communication
and the collaboration would occur.
But when you want to give students
access to audio and video content,
it's one click away inside of a browser.
And then they can easily
sync it to their iPods.
Inside of these as well,
you're able to go in,
and as Eric pointed out,
you can add subscribe buttons,
standard RSS 2 feeds coming out
of the iTunes U environment.
We support everything that the
iTunes Music Store itself supports.
You'll notice here that we have video
icons next to these assets here,
so these are MPEG-4 or H.264 videos.
When a course instructor adds new
content to this particular tab,
it'll automatically be podcast to
whoever has hit the subscribe button.
And again, each one of these elements up
here is URL addressable as well,
So if you want to drive somebody to
an individual tab versus an asset,
you can do that.
And then I think the other asset
type that we have in here is a PDF.
So again, you can distribute audio,
enhance AAC, MP3, enhance audio, video,
and PDF, anything that the music
store can distribute.
The way that we build out the front
page is if we go to edit page and
we wanted to add more courses,
you'll be able to see that we have the
tools for being able to add new sections.
So if I wanted to add new
sections called Heard on Campus,
I can do that.
Heard on Campus.
"I could add a new section and then
I could go and add a new course
to that and then build that out."
Okay,
so that's kind of the quick top overview
of how you're going to build out a page.
These are the tools that enable you
to build out an environment like
what you saw with the screenshots.
And with that,
we'll turn it back over to Eric so
he can talk through how you can
authenticate into the environment
and tie it into your infrastructure.
Okay, thanks Jason.
Okay, so you have a sense now
for what iTunes U can do.
What do you have to do as an institution?
So now I'm going to switch gears and
we're going to talk about what it takes
to integrate your institution's online
identity management into iTunes U.
I'll talk a little bit
about the design approach,
why we've chosen to design it this way,
and then we'll get into
The actual steps of authorization
and passing information to iTunes U,
talk about the structure,
how you build that out,
and then tie access
controls to that structure.
So one of the things that we did with
this design was to make sure that
you as an institution would be able
to control everything you need to
control about access to these courses.
Students and faculty and other members of
your community have an online identity,
hopefully with the
institution that you're with,
and that should be the way
that they enter our system.
We also realized we wouldn't
be able to have complete access
to all the data we need to.
So we need a way for some server on
your site to authorize users to the
content that is residing within iTunes U.
So all the decisions about access control
should be made by business logic that
you encode or write code to produce.
So one of the philosophies we took
away from that was early on working
with some of the universities we
were working with that a lot of
people were interested in SHIBLA,
Federated Identity Management,
and allowing for the sharing of resources
across institutions and things like this.
This is similar to what
we have done in Spirit.
We're a content provider,
a service provider in this case,
and your institution is
an identity provider,
and we want to make sure that we
allow you to secure the content.
So let's get into what gets passed
from your institution into iTunes U.
You have a message here that
we've crafted an example
of that sends an identity,
a time stamp, and a set of credentials.
And we'll talk about how the
credentials are used in a moment.
Identity, I want to point out,
is an optional piece of information
you can send to iTunes U.
We realize that there are
privacy concerns and you may not
need to identify users by name.
What does this get you in iTunes U?
If you want to identify users and
put in things such as a full name
or email address or username,
this allows you to track the user
information more closely in reports.
It allows you to identify in the Dropbox
and shared tabs who uploaded the content.
If you want to use opaque identifiers
in order to obscure this and
meet your own privacy policies,
then you may want to do that.
Keep in mind that it does preclude
some of those features from being
as user-friendly in terms of being
able to display who did something.
The time stamp guarantees that our
servers are on the same wavelength,
that the message is coming at the
time that we expect it to come.
And then the credentials are really,
we have two here, two different student
credentials as an example.
What defines the user's
access within the system?
In this case,
the example is somebody transferring in
as a student enrolled in two courses.
You add the shared secret that we gave
you when you created your iTunes U site,
and you produce a
signature of that message,
and then you post all that
data over secure HTTP to Apple.
And that's how you transfer
information to us about what type
of a user is entering the system.
So let's take that through step by step.
One of the first things you need
to do is figure out where the user
is going to enter iTunes U from.
Probably a web page.
Probably should be a web page.
That's what we've worked with in
all the cases we've done so far.
So I've got the Safari icon up here just
to indicate we start off in a web page.
And it could be, as Jason said,
a course management system,
learning management system.
Could be some other
gateway that you create.
There's a request to access
a resource within iTunes U.
That resource needs to go
to your campus web auth.
You need to make an authentication
and then an authorization decision.
What is this user authorized to see?
Where can I go and get information
about what affiliation?
So this is a way to get information
about what affiliation this user has
with things that are stored in iTunes U.
So course enrollment data or other
group-based information that you have.
Then you construct that
message we just saw,
and you send that server
to server to iTunes U.
iTunes U validates that,
and if it validates,
it sends back a URL that will contain
a session ID that will establish
a new session for this user within
iTunes U with those credentials.
So that gets forwarded
on back to the browser.
The browser launches iTunes.
There it goes.
iTunes, and iTunes accesses iTunes U.
So that's how you get
a user into iTunes U.
Jason mentioned bookmarkability,
having the URLs to individual
assets within iTunes U.
In order to make that work,
you also need to consider that
your web auth server is going to
need to understand a destination
parameter that we expect.
So it's a form value that if you
want to make bookmarkable URLs work,
needs to get passed through your campus
web auth onto iTunes U so that we can
generate a URL that's going to take the
user to that specific track or asset.
OK, so I'm going to go through an example
of building out a course structure.
And this is the structure I want to have.
And we'll talk about courses.
I have a Courses section.
I have an Events section.
And I have a Campus Community section.
So my Courses section,
I've created three courses just
to go through as an example.
You could create many more.
And my Events and
Campus Community section,
I have a few sections of
content that I've organized
into different course pages.
With this,
I want to create unique identifiers
and establish credentials for each of
those three courses and think about the
different roles I want to give to those.
I want to have a student role,
and I want to have an
instructor role for each course.
Now for Events and Campus Community,
I want to have a credential that
allows anyone I choose-- in this case,
I'm going to choose
students as a large group,
any student enrolled in my
institution-- to have access
to content within that site.
And we're going to block everybody else.
There's going to be no
public access to this site.
So underneath,
we have this type of a structure.
We have the welcome page, three sections,
and course pages underneath.
Now let's consider the roles.
When you got your welcome
email for iTunes U,
you were given site
administrator credentials.
So that was the first one that you
had that allowed you to go in and do
the things that Jason was showing to
create courses and sections and such.
The two other rules to think
about in this case are instructor
and student that I mentioned.
Further, when you get further
with your implementation,
you want to consider two more roles.
Authorized member,
which I'll use in my example here,
which is somebody who, as I said,
is a large group of people,
anybody who's a student in this case.
Or it could be anybody
who you just authenticate.
If they're a part of your community,
you're going to allow them to
see the content within your site.
And then a visitor role is the public,
anybody who comes to your
site unauthenticated.
So we have four levels of access.
Blocking access altogether.
Enabling download access,
which enables podcast access at the same
time if you've turned that feature on.
Upload access to be able to put content
back into a specific page or tab.
And then edit access,
which allows you to either edit the
entire site or just the section that
you've been given edit access to.
So let's combine these with the roles
that I have and define what the rules
are and policies are for my example.
Site administrator is going to have
edit access to the entire site.
We're going to have instructors
edit access at a course page level.
We're going to give students download
access at a course page level.
We want to give the authorized
member role download to those
other sections that I showed you.
And we're going to block
visitor access by not-- visitor
access is blocked by default.
So we're not even going
to do anything with that.
iTunes U won't let anybody
in unless you specifically
create a credential for that.
So back to my structure,
I want to protect these three
courses with unique credentials.
And I want to protect this
section with unique credentials.
So I would do something
like this as an example.
You would create a student credential
that has a unique identifier that
identifies that course and section.
If you have multiple sections,
you can choose to create new
course pages for each section.
Or you could create a credential that
will work for all sections of that course
to have access to the same course page.
And then we have an
instructor credential here.
So we would do this for
each of these three courses.
And then we would create this
type of credential for the
events and campus community page.
So as an example,
here's somebody who logs in
with two instructor credentials.
They're going to only see those
sections they have access to.
So the events in
Campus Community would disappear.
They wouldn't have access to those
and only the two course sections that,
two course pages that they
have access to would appear.
As another example, you have a student.
The student comes in,
you pass two credentials.
One, the authorized member credential
that gives them access to the entire
events in Campus Community site,
part of the site, and then the one course
that they're enrolled in.
Notice that this
hierarchy is pretty flat.
You could have hundreds of courses,
and we would recommend still keeping them
all in that same section called Courses,
because many of your users are not
going to have access to all of them.
They're going to have access
only to a few of them,
and it keeps the page nice and tight,
small, easy to find things.
So, a couple of additional topics
about getting this working
with your iTunes U site.
You get all this set up.
We have some sample
code that's on our site,
which I'll point you
to a little bit later.
But you get all this set up and
you're passing credentials to
iTunes U and things aren't working,
what do you do?
We just recently added some additional
debugging information to a page.
What you do is you take the suffix
that we gave you when you signed up,
you add that suffix onto the
URL that you post credentials to,
and you get a page like this.
This tells,
instead of jumping into iTunes,
the browser's going to display
what iTunes you received.
It's going to tell you exactly,
we received these
credentials in this format.
They either match or they don't
match anything that you've
put into the system already.
And if they don't match,
that's a pretty easy clue that
we have a formatting error
between the two credentials.
So use that to help you figure out
what is iTunes U think I'm sending
and determine that you have the
right structure and the transfer
of those authorization tokens.
A couple of other topics,
people ask about what to do at
the end of the semester or quarter
with the transition of courses.
What are we going to do at that point?
Well, because the authorization
logic is in your hands,
you have a lot of power to make
some of those decisions yourself,
and you saw that you
have templates to create.
So you have a couple of choices.
You could create a new course page
for each course every semester,
or you could reuse those.
Reusing those would be taking
out the old credentials,
updating them with the current ones that
your business logic is going to pick up
when they look for the affiliation of
a user within your student information
data or other information systems,
and passing that on and changing
that so that they have access to the,
everyone in the new section or
the new course for that semester
has access to that same course.
So you can reuse courses if you want,
or you can provision new ones.
So let's just recap this section of how
to integrate iTunes U with your site.
First, determine the entry point.
How are users going to
gain access to iTunes U,
and where do you want them
to do that on your website?
And how are you going to
do the authorization logic?
That's step one.
Second is to implement some
of the transfer logic and
test these credentials.
I mentioned the sample code.
Use that.
We have some sample code
today in Java and Perl,
and we hope to be adding
to that in the future.
Implement handling of destination
parameter and test bookmarks.
I mentioned this earlier.
If you want bookmarks to work,
please make sure that your gateway to
iTunes U supports that and test that.
And then fourth,
the shared secret is really
the only thing that keeps this
information trusted between your
authorization server and iTunes U.
So secure that.
Put that on a server and make sure
it's logically and physically secure.
And then last,
go through the exercise we just
did and figure out how you want
to create a structure and build
out with the iTunes U admin tools
and assign credentials to those.
Okay, so with that we've covered
the integration steps for
authentication and authorization,
and now I want to talk about content.
Without content,
we don't have much to talk about.
It's all about distributing content.
So we're going to talk about
file formats that work with
iTunes U and iTunes and the iPod,
and talk about the importance of
metadata and uploading content.
So we highly recommend MP3 or AAC because
of the compression and size of the
files that it produces and the metadata.
And we'll go into metadata in a moment.
For video, if you want this video to
work at all with the iPod,
there are some pretty particular
formats you have to use.
MPEG-4 with H.264 compression.
All of Apple's tools now of iLife06 and
QuickTime now support export to iPod,
which takes the guesswork out of,
"Is this going to work when I get
the content into iTunes U and
have others download it and play
it back on iTunes and iPod?"
Another format is enhanced podcasting,
which in the last year has gained a
lot of popularity due to podcasting.
This is an audio track with images.
And if you're considering
doing any kind of capture of
lectures or just presentations
that other people are doing,
like this one,
this is a great way to just
have an audio track with images
instead of full motion video,
which saves a lot of space.
And it's still a very rich experience
for your users on an iPod or an iTunes.
Jason also mentioned we support PDF.
And if you want more details about this,
we have a document I'll point you to at
the end of the session about creating
content for iPod and iTunes and all
of the things you should think about.
So, I mentioned enhanced audio.
If you think about these different
file sizes for 60 minutes of content.
If you're going to distribute 60
minutes of content compressed at
128 kilobits per second audio,
you'll probably end up with a
file roughly around 56 megabytes.
You add 30 images to that.
I have 30 or 40 images
in this presentation.
You size those for the iPod
screen and you've got a file
that's about 58 megabytes.
It's a lot smaller than if
you do 60 minutes of 15 frames
per second video for the iPod.
That's going to come out
to be about 280 megabytes.
And you have to think about what
you want to recommend to your
users as they're both uploading and
downloading this content potentially.
And there's time associated
with that and bandwidth.
So metadata.
This is a important subject
for iTunes U and iTunes and
iPod is as all systems rely on,
metadata to a great extent.
So iTunes currently displays name, album,
artist, and genre in many places.
In columns, in the info panel,
these same labels are used on
the iPod as you navigate the
content that's stored on the iPod.
And these are the common uses of
these fields that we found in the
work we've done so far in iTunes U.
Take the name of the track,
and that translates pretty straight.
But use the album as the course name.
Use the artist as the
instructor or student,
whoever really is the
author of the track.
And replace the genre
with the institution name.
Now explain.
This works well when you've
got content on iPod and people
are looking for that content.
If it's mixed in with other genres,
you may find that it makes it hard for
them to find all the content related to
Stanford or Berkeley or Duke or whatever.
If they have all the
content tagged familiarly,
they'll be able to find
it easily on the iPod.
So one of the site administrative
features that we created
was a track preferences.
In track preferences,
this gives you as a site administrator
the power to control and make sure that
your users have consistent metadata.
So let's take a look at one example.
On that page, you have the ability
to manage album artist,
genre, artwork.
This is an example of album.
So if you want to make sure that
your users are always getting
consistent album metadata,
you have a couple of options.
Because a lot of people forget to
put in metadata for these tracks.
We give you a couple of options here.
If it's empty-- I think that's
going to be a real common case
for most people-- if it's empty,
you want to make sure that it
gets filled in with something.
So we have an option of
Page Name and Tab Name or Page Name.
And we offer these because the page
name is taken from the course name.
When you've provisioned a course,
the course is going
to get that page name.
Your instructors may put other
information into the tab about what
type of content is stored in that tab.
Take those two,
combine them into a string,
and that will become the
album metadata for that track.
And all tracks downloaded from your site.
That makes it easy to find later.
You can override that.
You can select Override,
and that will make sure that
the content always uses that.
But if your users are providing
metadata in the album-- metadata,
then it's going to get
overridden by that.
And of course, if you want to turn
all these controls off,
select Use Original.
[Transcript missing]
File Formats.
Looks like I'm missing a
slide here on upload options.
So you saw the upload options for a file
at a time for an instructor and student.
Jason showed you how it transitions
from iTunes into a browser.
You have the interface with the tabs.
This makes it very easy for a user
to upload a few tracks at a time.
We've had a lot of people
ask for another way to upload
content in an automated fashion.
So we've been working on that.
And we have a web service which
allows you to upload many tracks
using any HTTP-based file upload
code that you have laying around.
Or you could use a utility like
Curl in Unix to upload a file.
And this allows you to
upload several files,
write a script.
It allows for a lot of flexibility.
Some situations this is useful is if
you're trying to automate the workflow
of getting content into iTunes U.
If you have a lecture capture system
that's recording audio or video,
you can let that do its work.
Compress the file down to the
format you want to distribute.
And then send that file to iTunes U.
[Transcript missing]
transfer logic.
You can find those at this URL.
We also have documentation
posted there which I mentioned
about creating content for iPod.
In iTunes,
we have documentation on the whole
process that I just described.
If you haven't,
if now you're interested in
iTunes U and you want to apply,
you can go to itunesu.com.
That's the URL that's
easiest to remember.
That'll take you to our site and
give you information about what it
takes to become an iTunes U site.
If you're a developer interested
in working with us in some way that
would allow your product or service to
automatically get content into iTunes U,
for example,
or other possibilities and you
need a developer contact in
Worldwide Developer Relations,
your contact is Michael McMillian.